ROX-11993: Add architecture document (#346)
stackrox/acs-fleet-manager: docs/architecture/README.md

### Grafana dashboards

There are two ACS Grafana dashboards hosted on the appSRE Grafana instance:
- General service [overview dashboard](https://grafana.stage.devshift.net/d/D1C839d82/acs-fleet-manager?orgId=1).
- [SLO/SLI service dashboard](https://grafana.stage.devshift.net/d/T2kek3H9a/acs-fleet-manager-slos?orgId=1).

### Alerts

The service alerts are configured and located on the [app-interface repository](https://gitlab.cee.redhat.com/service/app-interface/-/blob/master/resources/observability/prometheusrules/acs-fleet-manager-stage.prometheusrules.yaml).

### Metadata

The service metadata overview can be found in two places:
- AppSRE app-interface repository contains [ACS Fleet Manager metadata](https://gitlab.cee.redhat.com/service/app-interface/-/blob/master/data/services/acs-fleet-manager/app.yml).
- Also, it is available on [visual app-interface service page](https://visual-app-interface.devshift.net/services#/services/acs-fleet-manager/app.yml).

### Resource Capacity and Growth

The dev team expects that ACS Fleet Manager CPU, memory, and disk usage will grow proportionally to the number of users 
for both OSD cluster and AWS RDS instance.

> The number of running ACS Fleet Manager replicas can be configured via the `REPLICAS` environment variable in the [saas.yml](https://gitlab.cee.redhat.com/service/app-interface/-/blob/master/data/services/acs-fleet-manager/cicd/saas.yaml) file on app-interface.

Reviewer: Do we finally have a clear picture of how work sharding works? Is any replica able to work on any pending work item? What is the reason for the leader election in that case?
I'm a little worried that our hack for the liveness probe is [still not solved](https://github.com/stackrox/acs-fleet-manager/pull/127) and that in fact the horizontal scaling has no impact on capacity, just failover reliability, so mentioning it here might be a source of confusion...

The AWS RDS instance can be scaled with ACS Fleet Manager RDS resource configuration on app-interface
([prod](https://gitlab.cee.redhat.com/service/app-interface/-/blob/master/resources/terraform/resources/acs-fleet-manager/production/rds-pg14.yml)
and [stage](https://gitlab.cee.redhat.com/service/app-interface/-/blob/master/resources/terraform/resources/acs-fleet-manager/staging/rds-pg14.yml)).

Factors which affect storage/database growth:
- ACS Fleet Manager retains information for each ACS instance for each user.
- ACS Fleet Manager retains information for each ongoing request for provisioning/deleting ACS instances.

Factors which affect CPU and memory usage:
- ACS Fleet Manager receives users requests from https://console.redhat.com.
- ACS Fleet Manager leader replica has a reconciler loop which handles all ongoing provisioning/deleting requests.

### Data Continuity and Disaster Recovery

- AWS RDS:
  - ACS Fleet manager uses only AWS RDS (PostgreSQL) for persisting critical data. 
  - The AWS RDS instances are managed by the AppSRE team.

>   - Both ACS Fleet Manager RDS resources are defined in app-interface repository ([prod](https://gitlab.cee.redhat.com/service/app-interface/-/blob/master/resources/terraform/resources/acs-fleet-manager/production/rds-pg14.yml) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Both ACS Fleet Manager RDS instances resources are defined in app-interface repository ([prod](https://gitlab.cee.redhat.com/service/app-interface/-/blob/master/resources/terraform/resources/acs-fleet-manager/production/rds-pg14.yml) 
```
Assuming you mean "both instances", not "both resources"?

- Local filesystem:
  - Local filesystems on pods do not have any business-critical data.
    Thus, no action needed for recovering data from the pod filesystem.

In summary, ACS Fleet Manager AWS RDS is the only critical data store that may need to be recovered following a disaster.

### Data Loss Impact

If there is a disaster that results in the database losing data, and lost data was recorded after the last backup, then the only option is to manually restore it using the ACS Fleet Manager logs.

Consequences of data loss may include but are not limited to:
- Provisioned ACS instance may disappear from users dashboard on https://console.redhat.com.
- Ongoing ACS instance provisioning requests might be lost.
- Ongoing ACS instance deleting requests might be lost.

ACS Fleet Manager does not retain or report any personally identifying information (PII) or critical financial records. 
Losing data in ACS Fleet Manager due to a disaster only noticeably affects the displayed users of ACS instances on https://console.redhat.com. 
The ACS instances itself are hosted on separate cluster and should persist regardless ACS Fleet Manager AWS RDS lost data.

> Requesting a new ACS Instance after data loss should not have any issue.

Reviewer: What if there is a name clash?
Should we mention here how to restore a record of an existing instance?

# ACS Fleet Manager

#### Table of Contents:
- [Overview](#overview)
- [Technology stack overview](#technology-stack-overview)
- [ACS Fleet Manager Interactions Overview](#acs-fleet-manager-interactions-overview)
- [Deployment flow](#deployment-flow)
- [SLO documents](#slo-documents)
- [Grafana dashboards](#grafana-dashboards)
- [Alerts](#alerts)
- [Metadata](#metadata)
- [Resource Capacity and Growth](#resource-capacity-and-growth)
- [Data Continuity and Disaster Recovery](#data-continuity-and-disaster-recovery)
- [Data Loss Impact](#data-loss-impact)
- [Runbook](#runbook)

### Overview

> ACS Fleet Manager allows [Red Hat Cloud Console](https://console.redhat.com/) users to request and manage [ACS instance](https://github.com/stackrox/stackrox).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
ACS Fleet Manager allows [Red Hat Cloud Console](https://console.redhat.com/) users to request and manage [ACS instances](https://github.com/stackrox/stackrox).
```

  - [Gorm](https://gorm.io/index.html) ORM is used and [Gormigrate](https://github.com/go-gormigrate/gormigrate) for migrations
- The service provides a REST API
  - The API is implemented according to the [OpenAPI specification](https://gitlab.cee.redhat.com/service/web-rca/-/blob/main/openapi/openapi.yaml)
  - List of [public APIs](https://github.com/stackrox/acs-fleet-manager/blob/main/openapi/fleet-manager.yaml)
  - List of [private APIs](https://github.com/stackrox/acs-fleet-manager/blob/main/openapi/fleet-manager-private.yaml)
  - List of [admin APIs](https://github.com/stackrox/acs-fleet-manager/blob/main/openapi/fleet-manager-private-admin.yaml)
- The service uses Red Hat SSO for [authentication](https://github.com/stackrox/acs-fleet-manager/blob/main/docs/auth/jwt-claims.md)
- The service metrics gathered by appSRE [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/)

### ACS Fleet Manager Interactions Overview

See [miro ACSMS dashboard](https://miro.com/app/board/uXjVOh7XtrE=/)

### Deployment flow

Deployment steps:
1. AppSRE JenkinsCI runs [build main job](https://ci.ext.devshift.net/job/stackrox-acs-fleet-manager-gh-build-main/).

>    - It includes building an image from source and pushing it to the quay.io under appSRE organisation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   - It includes building an image from source and pushing it to quay.io under the appSRE organisation.
```

> 2. AppSRE JenkinsCI triggers Tekton pipeline for selected target namespaces.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. The AppSRE JenkinsCI triggers a Tekton pipeline for the selected target namespaces.
```

3. Tekton deploys the latest version to the control plane OSD cluster.

There are two triggers for the service deployment:

> - New commit in the main branch in the GitHub ACS Fleet Manager repository.

Author: staging and production later

- Any ACS Fleet Manager file is changed on [app-interface repository](https://gitlab.cee.redhat.com/service/app-interface).
  - The first deployment step is skipped if only ACS Fleet Manager [saas.yml](https://gitlab.cee.redhat.com/service/app-interface/-/blob/master/data/services/acs-fleet-manager/cicd/saas.yaml) is changed.

>     It makes sense because saas.yml do not have any impact on image so there is no need to build a new one.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    It makes sense because `saas.yml` does not have any impact on the image, so there is no need to build a new one.
```

![deployment flow](./images/deployment_flow.png "Deployment flow diagram")

### SLO documents

See: Control Plane [SLO/SLI proposal document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1P4zgZ1IYFD_wgYYfaT-AAQMe6afOVbt3YxORmNk7Bu4).

There is a list of SLO [documents](https://gitlab.cee.redhat.com/service/app-interface/-/tree/master/docs/acs-fleet-manager/slos).

### Grafana dashboards

> There are two ACS grafana dashboard hosted on appSRE grafana instance:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are two ACS Grafana dashboards hosted on the appSRE Grafana instance:
```

- General service [overview dashboard](https://grafana.stage.devshift.net/d/D1C839d82/acs-fleet-manager?orgId=1).
- [SLO/SLI service dashboard](https://grafana.stage.devshift.net/d/T2kek3H9a/acs-fleet-manager-slos?orgId=1).

### Alerts

The service alerts are configured and located on the [app-interface repository](https://gitlab.cee.redhat.com/service/app-interface/-/blob/master/resources/observability/prometheusrules/acs-fleet-manager-stage.prometheusrules.yaml).

### Metadata

The service metadata overview can be found in two places:
- AppSRE app-interface repository contains [ACS Fleet Manager metadata](https://gitlab.cee.redhat.com/service/app-interface/-/blob/master/data/services/acs-fleet-manager/app.yml).
- Also, it is available on [visual app-interface service page](https://visual-app-interface.devshift.net/services#/services/acs-fleet-manager/app.yml).

### Resource Capacity and Growth

The dev team expects that ACS Fleet Manager CPU, memory, and disk usage will grow proportionally to the number of users 
for both OSD cluster and AWS RDS instance.

> The number of running ACS Fleet Manager replicas can be configured via `REPLICAS` environment variable on [saas.yml](https://gitlab.cee.redhat.com/service/app-interface/-/blob/master/data/services/acs-fleet-manager/cicd/saas.yaml) file on app-interface.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The number of running ACS Fleet Manager replicas can be configured via the `REPLICAS` environment variable in the [saas.yml](https://gitlab.cee.redhat.com/service/app-interface/-/blob/master/data/services/acs-fleet-manager/cicd/saas.yaml) file on app-interface.
```

The AWS RDS instance can be scaled with ACS Fleet Manager RDS resource configuration on app-interface
([prod](https://gitlab.cee.redhat.com/service/app-interface/-/blob/master/resources/terraform/resources/acs-fleet-manager/production/rds-pg14.yml)
and [stage](https://gitlab.cee.redhat.com/service/app-interface/-/blob/master/resources/terraform/resources/acs-fleet-manager/staging/rds-pg14.yml)).

> There are factors which affect storage/database growth:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Factors which affect storage/database growth:
```

- ACS Fleet Manager retains information for each ACS instance for each user.

> - ACS Fleet Manager retains information for each ongoing request for provisioning/deleting ACS instance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- ACS Fleet Manager retains information for each ongoing request for provisioning/deleting ACS instances.
```

> There are factor which affect CPU and memory usage:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Factors which affect CPU and memory usage:
```

- ACS Fleet Manager receives users requests from https://console.redhat.com.
- ACS Fleet Manager leader replica has a reconciler loop which handles all ongoing provisioning/deleting requests.

### Data Continuity and Disaster Recovery

- AWS RDS:
  - ACS Fleet manager uses only AWS RDS (PostgreSQL) for persisting critical data. 

>   - The AWS RDS instances is managed AppSRE team.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - The AWS RDS instances are managed by the AppSRE team.
```

    and [stage](https://gitlab.cee.redhat.com/service/app-interface/-/blob/master/resources/terraform/resources/acs-fleet-manager/staging/rds-pg14.yml)).
  - In case of a database disaster, AppSRE would need to recreate that database and restore the latest backup.
    Also, it is possible to trigger restoring from the backup manually.
    Follow [appSRE instructions](https://gitlab.cee.redhat.com/service/app-interface#restoring-rds-databases-from-backups) for restoring RDS from the backup.
    Furthermore, ACS Fleet Manager deployments automatically check and apply schema migrations on startup. 
    So, if migrations were lost in the disaster, deployment will automatically update an out-of-date schema.
- Local filesystem:
  - Local filesystems on pods do not have any business-critical data.
    Thus, no action needed for recovering data from the pod filesystem.

In summary, ACS Fleet Manager AWS RDS is the only critical data store that may need to be recovered following a disaster.

### Data Loss Impact

> If there is a disaster that results in the database losing any data. 
> And lost data was recorded after last backup. 
> In that case the only option is to manually restore it using ACS Fleet Manager logs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If there is a disaster that results in the database losing data, and lost data was recorded after the last backup, then the only option is to manually restore it using the ACS Fleet Manager logs.
```

Consequences of data loss may include but are not limited to:
- Provisioned ACS instance may disappear from users dashboard on https://console.redhat.com.

> - Ongoing ACS instance provisioning request might be lost.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Ongoing ACS instance provisioning requests might be lost.
```

> - Ongoing ACS instance deleting request might be lost.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Ongoing ACS instance deleting requests might be lost.
```

ACS Fleet Manager does not retain or report any personally identifying information (PII) or critical financial records. 

> Losing data in ACS Fleet Manager due to a disaster only noticeably affects the displayed users ACS instances on https://console.redhat.com. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Losing data in ACS Fleet Manager due to a disaster only noticeably affects the displayed users of ACS instances on https://console.redhat.com. 
```
